II. ADMISSION, REGISTRATION AND RELATED MATTERS


Admission to the undergraduate programs leading to an award of a diploma or baccalaureate degree is selective to promote quality and excellence in tertiary education. To qualify for admission, incoming students need to pass the BUCET.
Bicol University College Entrance Test (BUCET)

Incoming first year students are required to take the BUCET. It is a three-hour examination consisting of sub-tests in Language proficiency in English, Mathematics, Science and Reading Comprehension. Admission is based on the applicant's Bicol University College Entrance Test (BUCET) Composite Rating consisting of the BUCET score and his/her general weighted average (GWA) in the grade 9 to 11.

General Requirements:

1. Students from DepEd or other recognized high schools and are high school seniors expecting to graduate at the end of the school year; OR
2. Senior high school graduates who have not taken and/are not taking any college subject/s; AND 3. Holders of Philippines Educational Placement Test/ Alternative Learning System (PEPT/ALS) certificates who are eligible for admission to college.
The BUCET cut-off rating for the Licensure and Non-licensure courses shall be recommended by the Admissions Office.

Shifters

Shifters are internal transferees from one course program to another within the University. They shall be allowed to shift subject for availability of place/slot in the college/unit they are seeking transfer to. They shall vie for the places/slots along with transferees from outside the University; hence, will be required to submit the following documents.

1. Letter of intent to transfer specifying, among others, the reason for request for transfer;
2. Certification from the Dean/Director of the availability of slot;
3. Certification of grades duly signed by the College/Unit Registrar.

When and if needed, the prospective shifter may have to be referred to the University Guidance Office. Conditions required of transferees from outside the University shall apply to the shifters including the payment of processing fee of Php 100.00.

Transfer Students

Admission of transferees is contingent upon the availability of slots in the College the applicants are seeking transfer to, upon which the Dean of the College shall declare the slot open or available upon the recommendation of the College Department Head of the program where said slot is available.

Transferees' application for transfer must reach the Office of Admissions in due time prior to the registration period together with the letter of intent for transfer. The following documents are to be submitted:

1. Certification from the Dean/Director of availability of place/slot in the College/Unit;
2. Certification of grades duly signed by the Registrar of the original school bearing the school's seal; or
3. Official transcript of records (OTR) from the last school attended; and
4. Certificate of honorable dismissal.

Processing of the transferees' documents shall commence upon payment of processing fee inclusive of aptitude testing which some colleges require.

Applicants for transfer may still go through an interview in the college/unit they intend to transfer to or be subjected to other college/program requirements.

Eligibility for admission of transferees shall be determined by the result of multiple assessment procedures, including but not limited to:

1. Course-program aptitude test, if required by the College/Unit/Department;
2. Grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or 89%;
3. No failing grade in any of the courses taken
4. Applicant shall not have finished more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the units required for the course
5. Interview; and/or
6. Other assessment procedure(s) required by the College/Unit/Department.

Transfer Credits

Only course units earned from colleges/universities with the same program accreditation level as Bicol University or higher or those who are duly recognized by CHED will be credited. Transfer credits, however, shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of units required for the course. Moreover, the following must be taken into consideration in awarding transfer credits:

1. At the discretion of the College Dean, a validation examination may be required for subjects with ratings below 2.5 or its equivalent before credits are granted.
2. The courses or subjects for which the credits are claimed are in the opinion of the College Dean equivalent to the content coverage, or has the same curriculum offered in the college.
3. The number of units is the same as the units of the equivalent subject in Bicol University. 4. The rules on sequences of subjects (prerequisites) in the curriculum are observed. The student will not be allowed to enroll in a subject the prerequisites of which, taken elsewhere, have not been validated or repeated.

All transferees shall be admitted on probation for one semester, within which period, specific conditions set by the college shall be met in addition to the conditions imposed by the University. Special admission or re-admission of students shall be approved by the President following a thorough evaluation by relevant committees at the college level and the university Level.

Graduates of Technical-Vocational Courses

Admission of graduates of terminal technical-vocational courses shall be assessed on a case-to- case basis. The documentary requirements and conditions set for transfer students shall apply to them.

Returning Students

Old students who stopped schooling due to ill health or any other valid reason can seek re- admission by presenting medical or other documents to support his/her reason/s for dropping out of school.

Renewal of registration of student is dependent on his/her previous performance. The college/ unit reserves the right to refuse enrollment/re-admission of old/ returning student on account of proofs of his/her violation of the school's rules and regulations and/or academic deficiency.

An old student may be re-admitted upon presentation of his/her clearance duly signed by school officials concerned; while a student returning from leave of absence shall present supporting papers or documents.

Undergraduate Foreign Students

General Requirements

The general admission requirements for student-applicants from other nations in the Bicol University are the submission of the following:

1. Original Transcript of Records (OTR)
2. Personal Data
3. Affidavit of Support
4. Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR)
5. Results of Test on English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)
6. Approved study permit from CHED
7. An application fee of $50.00

Students from other nations who have graduated from high schools abroad may be admitted to first year courses in the University if they meet the following specific requirements:

1. Certification of completion of a secondary curriculum where the applicant had his/her secondary education.
2 Certification of proficiency in English based on the TOEFL score (for non-native speakers of English)
3. Qualifying in the BUCET or any of the following International Foreign-based examination in lieu of the BUCET such as:
Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) Advanced with a minimum combined score of 1200 in Mathematics, Critical Reading and Writing sub-test areas.

Registration

Qualified applicants for admission should register within the period of registration. Registration includes filling out the prescribed forms and paying the required fees.
Students enrolled during the preceding semester including summer session are re-enrolled upon being cleared by the Dean and other officials concerned.

No student shall be registered in any subject after the last day of late registration in the school calendar.

Registration without fine is allowed only to special students, but is subject to other regulations of the University.

A student must be officially registered in order to receive a credit for course work.

________________________________________________________________________________________


III. ACADEMIC POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND PROGRAMS 


The Academic Year

Generally, all academic units of the University in all levels operate under the semestral system in which classes are scheduled on a Monday through Friday run, occasionally three (3) hours are scheduled on Saturdays and/or Sundays.

Prescribed Uniform

Students must wear the required uniform for their academic level. The design approved by the Board of Regents are disseminated upon enrollment.

Credit Unit

One unit of credit shall be at least eighteen (18) full hours of instruction per semester in the form of lecture, discussion, seminar, tutorial, or equivalent field or any combination of these forms. A substantial equivalent shall be observed for other terms such as trimestral or quarterly system.

Academic Load

The regular academic load for undergraduate students shall be that which is prescribed in the curriculum in a semester for a certain program/course.

A graduating student with satisfactory academic record may be permitted to carry an additional load of one or two subjects in his/her last semester, provided that the total load does not exceed the maximum of thirty-three (33) units per semester, provided further that this will not contradict with any existing policy of the University; provided finally that the student concerned is a candidate for graduation at the end of the semester that the load is allowed. An additional of one (1) or two (2) non major subjects may also be allowed to students who are on Student Teaching/Practicum.

During the summer term, the regular load shall be nine (9) units or that which is prescribed in the curriculum, but in justifiable cases the Dean or Director may allow a higher load of not exceeding twelve (12) units. The Dean shall limit the academic load to students who are employed in the University, whether full time or part-time.
Classification of Students

Undergraduate students are classified as regular, irregular, non-regular, and foreign.
A Regular Undergraduate Student is one who has organized a program of study for a bachelor's degree, or undergraduate diploma/certificate, is registered for formal academic credits, and carries the subjects called for by the curriculum for which s/he is registered in a given semester.

An Irregular Student is one who is registered for formal academic credits, but does not carry the full semester load called for by the curriculum for which s/he is registered in a given semester.

A Non-Regular student is one who is registered for formal academic credits, but not for a degree or is registered but does not receive formal academic credit/s for subjects taken. Classified as non- regular students are the following:

- Non-degree students with credits
- Cross registrants with credits
- Special students without credits

A Foreign Student is one who is a citizen /subject or resident of another country whose admission to the University is contingent upon the compliance of the requirements of the National Government, after qualifying for admission and submission of all the documentary and other requirements of the University.


Students are also classified, for purposes of registration, as follows:

1. First year student - one who has not finished the prescribed subjects for the first year of his/her curriculum or twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of units required for the entire four-year degree course, or twenty (20) percent in the case of a five-year degree course.
2. Sophomore one who has completed the prescribed subjects for the first year of his/her curriculum or has finished not less than twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of units required by his/her entire four-year degree course or not less than twenty (20) percent but not more than forty (40) percent of the total number of units required for the five-year degree course.
3. Junior - one who has completed the prescribed subjects for the first two years of his/her curriculum or has finished not less than fifty (50) percent but not more than seventy-five (75) percent of the total number of units required for the entire four-year degree course, or not less than forty (40) percent but not more than sixty (60) percent of the total number of units required for the five-year degree course.
4. Senior - one who has completed the prescribed subjects for the first, second, and third year of his/her curriculum, or has finished seventy-five (75) percent of the total number of units required for the entire four-year degree course. A student in a five-year degree program is classified as a pre-senior if s/he has completed not less than sixty (60) percent, but not more than eighty (80) percent of the total number of units required for the course.

In the case of a five-year degree course/program, one is classified as a senior student if she has finished the prescribed subjects for the first, second, third, and fourth years of his curriculum, or has completed not less than eighty percent (80%) of the total number of units required for the course.

Cross-Registration

a. Cross-Registration within the University

A student who needs to register in two or more colleges within the University must seek the permission of his/her College Dean in writing. This written permission should state the total number unit-credits for which a student may register in two or more colleges in the University and should not exceed that which is prescribed in the curriculum for his/her course.

No cross-enrollment shall be allowed beyond one week after the close of registration.

b. Cross-Registration from another Institution

A student registered in an institution outside the University and who wishes to cross-register in the Bicol University must present a permit from his/her Dean or registrar. The permit should state in writing the total number of units which the student is allowed and the subjects that s/he is authorized to take.

Students from colleges/universities outside Bicol University may be allowed to cross-register in any unit of the university within the enrolment period only.

c. Cross-Registration to another Institution

The University gives no credit for any course taken by any of its students in any other institution outside the University unless the taking of such course was authorized by the College Dean and the University Registrar. This authorization should be in writing and should specify the subjects and state the number of academic unit load which s/he may be allowed. The total number of academic unit load, which may be allowed, should not exceed the maximum load prescribed for his/her course and curriculum year. A prescribed form of cross-enrollment is required.

Students who are candidates for graduation with only one (1) subject left during his/her last term may be allowed to cross-enroll outside the University provided that s/he enlist in one subject of his/her choice to maintain residency.

Changing of Subjects/Transferring to other Classes

Change of subjects or transfer to other classes shall be made for valid reasons, which shall be considered.


Adding of Subject(s)

A subject or subjects added to one's academic load unofficially or without prior approval by the Dean shall not be given credit.

Adding of subject(s) for valid reason shall be stated in writing for approval by the Dean of the college wherein one is enrolled. This shall be made within one week after the close of registration and shall only be allowed upon payment of the corresponding fee. The total load allowed however, shall not exceed the maximum under the rule on academic load or that, which is prescribed for his/her curriculum year during the term/semester.

Substitution of Subjects

A substitution of subjects may be allowed, provided that the conditions prescribed by the University are satisfied. All petitions for substitutions must be approved upon the recommendation of the Department Chair to the College Dean before the 3rd class meeting shall have been held during the term. No substitution shall be allowed for any subject prescribed in the curriculum which the student has failed in or received a grade of 5.0, except when the subject is no longer offered, in which case substitution may be allowed, provided, that in the opinion of the department offering the prescribed subjects, the proposed substitute covers substantially the same subject matter as the required subject.

Every substitution of subject must be based on at least one of the following:

1. When a student is pursuing a curriculum that has been superseded by a new one and the substitution tends to bring the old curriculum in line with the new.
2. Conflict of hours between two subjects where the student is officially enrolled.
3. When the required subject is not offered during the semester that the student needs it.
Petition for substitution should meet the following:
1. Must involve subjects within the same department, if possible; if not, the subjects concerned must be allied to each other.
2. Must be between subjects in which subjects submitted carries a number of units equal to, or greater than the units of the required subjects.
3. Must be recommended by the adviser or by the head department concerned.
Dropping of Subjects

A student may, with the consent of the instructor and the College Dean, drop the subject by filling out the prescribed form within three-fourths of the total maximum class hours prescribed thereof.

After the period has lapsed, a student may be allowed to drop a course by reason of illness duly certified by a physician, or other valid reasons. A student who unofficially drops his/her subject(s) after obtaining his/her midterm grades shall be given a grade of 5.0 (failure) in all subjects at the end of the term. The subject instructor shall give the grade.

Withdrawal of Registration

A student may be entitled to withdraw his/her credentials submitted as requirements for enrollment. After this period, the request shall be for dropping of subjects and the rules for dropping shall apply.

Prerequisites

The rules on sequence of subjects in the curriculum in the course being taken must be followed. A subject or course approved by the Academic Council, as prerequisite to others should be taken before a higher course. Enrolling and attendance in a subject without passing its prerequisite shall earn students no academic credit, unless such enrollment has been approved by the College Dean.

Shifting from One Course/Program to Another

A student of any college in the University who desires to shift to another course/program within the University for valid reason shall be governed by the following:

1. S/he has not obtained two or more failing grades in his/her present course/program;
2. S/he has not finished fifty (50) percent or more of the required units on his/her present course; 3. His/her transfer is accepted by the Dean of the college where s/he plans to continue the new course; and
4. S/he has earned a grade point average (GPA) of 2.4
5. S/he has satisfied all other requirements for admission to the new course.
The student shall file an application for this purpose through the Dean of the college where s/he is presently enrolled. This application shall be endorsed to the Dean of the college where s/he plans to continue the new course. Once admitted, the latter shall request for his/her records for evaluation of his/her subjects before s/he can be enrolled.

Attendance and Absences

Any student who, for unavoidable cause, absents him/herself from classes must obtain an excuse letter from either the adviser or the guidance coordinator to be presented to the instructors concerned not later than the second session following his/her return. In case of illness where the absence is for five days or more, but not exceeding one month, a medical certificate must be secured from the University Medical Center, or from proper medical office outside the University.

Excuses are only for time missed. All work covered by the class during his/her absence shall have to be made up to the satisfaction of the instructor within a reasonable time from the date of absence.

When the number of hours lost by the absence of a student reaches twenty percent (20%) of the hours of the scheduled work in one subject, s/he shall be dropped. However, a faculty member may prescribe longer attendance requirement to meet special needs. If the majority of the absences are excused, the student shall not be given a grade of 5.0 (failure) upon being dropped.

Leave of Absence

Prolonged leave of absence shall be taken to mean temporary discontinuance of studies by the student due to illness, employment, pregnancy and other similar cases. Leave of absence shall be granted through written petition to the college dean. The petition should state the reason and the period, which must not exceed a consecutive period of two terms/ semesters, subject to renewal for very meritorious reasons. Such approved written petition shall be made part of his records.

A student who leaves the University without a formal leave of absence shall have his registration privileges curtailed or entirely withdrawn.

Scholastic Deficiency

a. Academic Probation

A student who fails in one subject at any time shall in succeeding term carry a load which in one subject (of equivalent unit) less the load allowed for his course during the current semester. A student who obtains two failing marks at the end of the term will be under probation during the following semester and may be allowed to take not more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the regular load for the semester. Probation may be removed upon passing all the subjects carried during the term he/she is on probation.

b. Academic Dismissal

A student who is under probation and still obtains a failing mark in one of his subjects at the end of the term shall be automatically dropped from the rolls of the college. A student who obtains three or more failing grades at the end of the term shall be dropped from the rolls of the college. Third, fourth, and fifth year students, may be re-enrolled upon petition in writing addressed to the Academic Petitions Committee, provided the failure is for the first time. The maximum academic load that may be granted to the student is nine (9) units.

The Academic Petitions Committee shall be composed of the following:

·Associate Dean/Department Chairperson - Chair (If the College/Unit does not have an Associate Dean)
·Faculty Club President - Member
·Department Chair/ Senior Faculty designated by the Dean - Member (If the College/Unit does not have an Associate Dean)
·CSC President - Member
·Another student representative designated by the Dean - Member

The final decision shall be with the Dean of the college concerned.

c. Honorable Dismissal

A student in good standing who desires to leave the University shall present his clearance and receipt of payment for a transcript of records to the Registrar for the preparation of a Certificate of Honorable Dismissal. The Certificate indicates that the student leaves the University in good standing as far as character and conduct are concerned.

d. Dismissal

A student who leaves the University for reason of dismissal due to disciplinary action shall be entitled, or permitted to receive the transcript of records or certification of his academic status in the University containing a statement of the disciplinary action rendered against him. He shall not be entitled to an honorable dismissal.

e. Permanent Disqualification

Any student shall be permanently barred from re-enrolment in any college/school/unit of the University on the following grounds:

■ Poor scholarship - the student is dropped from the rolls of any college of the University due to poor scholarship as governed by the rules on academic dismissal.
■Complete failure - the student failed in all his subjects for the term/semester.
■ Dismissal due to violation of the rules and regulations of the University.

Permanent disqualification shall not apply to cases in which failing grades of the student were due to his/her unauthorized dropping of the subjects and not poor scholarship, as certified by the instructor concerned. If the unauthorized dropping of subjects takes place after the mid-term examinations and the mid-term grades obtained by the student were poor, the grade of 5.0 (failure) will be credited against him/her.

Policy Statement on Academic Integrity

Pursuant to paragraph 2, section 5 of Article XIV of the constitution, the University enjoys academic freedom and institutional autonomy. No student is denied admission by reason of sex, nationalities, religion, political affiliation or physical disability.
Among the aims of education are the acquisition of knowledge and development of skills necessary for success as an educator or in another profession. Activities inconsistent with these aims will not be permitted. Students are responsible for knowing what constitutes academic dishonesty.

Examples of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to:

1. Plagiarizing or representing the words or ideas or information of another person as one's own and not offering proper documentation;
2. Giving or receiving prior to an examination, any unauthorized information concerning the content of that examination;
3. Referring to or displaying any unauthorized materials inside the examination room during the course of an examination;
4. Communicating during an examination in any manner with any unauthorized person concerning the examination or any part of it;
5. Giving or receiving substantive aid during the course of an examination;
6. Talking, converting, concealing, defacing, damaging or destroying any property related to the preparation or completion of assignments, research or examination.
Students found guilty of academic dishonesty are subject to any or a combination of the following:
a. Written warning
b. Loss of credit for the work involved
C. Reduction of grades
d. Failing grade in the course
e. Suspension
f. Dismissal
g. Other sanctions imposed by the University

A notation that such sanction has been imposed will be made part of the student's permanent record. It is expected that the Dean will notify the student of the sanction imposed and the appeal procedure.

Maximum Residence Rule

Residence refers to the number of years or terms required of a student to finish a course. An undergraduate student must finish the requirements of a course in any college within a period of actual residence equivalent to a maximum of the prescribed length of the program plus one year pursuant to the other provisions of the Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act of 2017.

Enforcing a New Curriculum

Any change in curriculum must be implemented in such a way that the interest of the students is not prejudiced. When a new curriculum is enforced, only new students or first year shall be concerned.

A student shall follow the same curriculum that s/he started on within the maximum length of time allowed for residence. However, if for some reasons s/he drops from school before graduation and when s/he returns, the maximum length of residence has been exceeded, s/he will already be covered by any change in curriculum that has been implemented while s/he was out.

Similarly, if a student fails to finish his/her course within the prescribed maximum number of years of residence in the college, s/he shall be required to follow the new curriculum.

Examinations

A. Regular Examination

Two regular written examinations, the mid-term and the final examinations, are prescribed every semester/ term. Other written, oral or practical examinations are also given at the discretion of the subject instructor.

Regular examinations are administered by the subject instructors with the assistance of the proctors.

B. Make-up Examination

Examination missed for justifiable reasons may be made up within the same term at the discretion of the subject instructor concerned.

Validating Examination

For purposes of accreditation of subjects taken from other institutions by transfer students with ratings lower than 2.5, validating examinations may be requested by the student from the office of the College Dean with a corresponding validating fee charged per subject.

GRADING SYSTEM

The University shall have a uniform grading system using number grades from 1.0 to 5.0, where 1.0 is the highest.

The detailed grading system is as follows:

Adjectival Rating	Grade	Equivalent
Outstanding		1.0	99-100
			1.1	98
			1.2	97
			1.3	96
			1.4	95
Superior		1.5	94
			1.6	93
			1.7	92
Very Satisfactory	1.8	91
			1.9	90
			2.0	89
			2.1	88
			2.2	87
			2.3	86
			2.4	85
			2.5	84
Satisfactory		2.6	82-83
			2.7	80-81
			2.8	78-79
Fair/Average		2.9	76-77
			3.0	75 (Passing)
Poor			3.1-4.0	Below 75 Conditional (lowest possible mid-term rating)
			5.0	Failure (lowest possible final rating)

The passing grade in the Graduate School is 3.0, but a graduate student has to maintain a general weighted average of 2.0, otherwise, s/he will not be allowed to take the comprehensive examination and will subsequently be disqualified from earning the degree.

A student who incurred a FAILING MARK in his/her course work may be allowed to retake the subject not more than two times.

Interpretation of Grades

The meaning of the adjectival ratings and the corresponding ratings on the scale can be interpreted as follows:

Adjectival Rating	Extent to which the Behavior is Exhibited	How Frequently the Skill/Quality/Attribute is Observed
Outstanding		Student has mastered all of the courses' major instructional objectives	Always Observed

Superior		Student has mastered all of the courses' major instructional objectives and almost all minor instructional objectives.	Frequently Observed

Very Satisfactory	Student has mastered all of the courses major instructional objectives and most of the minor instructional objectives.	Fairly Observed

Satisfactory	Student has mastered some of the courses' major instructional objectives and most of the minor instructional objectives.		Sometimes Observed

Fair/Average	Student has mastered just a few/some of the courses' major instructional objectives needed for the next highest level of instruction. Remedial work would be desirable.	Rarely Observed

Conditional/Failure	Student has not mastered any of the course's main instruction objectives and lacks the essentials needed for the next highest level of instruction. Remedial work is needed.	Never Observed

The Grade of Incomplete (INC)

An "INC" grade indicates incomplete course work and may be awarded to a graduate or an undergraduate student only when a small portion of the student's work is incomplete and only when the student is otherwise earning a passing mark. Until removed, the "INC" is not included in the computation of the students GWA. Student with incomplete (INC) grade of the previous semester are given one school year for completion of subjects; otherwise it will be converted to a failing grade by the College Registrar upon written instruction from the concerned professor(s). In the event that the concerned professor(s) cannot be contacted (due to resignation, retirement, death, etc.), the Dean is empowered to make decisions for the concerned professor(s) in consultation with the Department Chair.

Graduation Requirements

A student shall be recommended for graduation only after s/he has satisfied all academic and other requirements prescribed for graduation.

Candidates for graduation who began their studies under a curriculum ten (10) years back shall be governed by the following:

■Those who have completed all the requirements of the curriculum but did not apply for, nor were granted the corresponding degree or title shall have their graduation approved, as of the date they should have originally graduated.
■Those who have completed all but two or three subjects required by the curriculum shall be made to follow either the revised curriculum or the curriculum enforced from the time they first enrolled in the University to the present.
■ All candidates for graduation must have their deficiencies removed and their records cleared not later than five weeks before the end of their last semester/term in the program, with the exception of the subjects in which they are currently enrolled. No student shall be allowed to graduate from the University unless s/he is in residence during the last two terms/semesters of his course.

Graduation with Honors

A candidate for graduation who has completed his/her course with a high weighted average rating, computed to the fourth decimal place on the basis of units and has satisfied the required number of residence in the college is entitled to graduation with honor provided s/he has no grade lower than 3.0 in any subjects following faithfully his/her curriculum. The University shall award the following:

Honors		General Weighted Average
Summa Cum Laude	GWA <=1.25
Magna Cum Laude	1.25 < GWA <=1.45
Cum Laude	1.45 < GWA <=1.75

A student who is a candidate for graduation with honors must have carried the regular load per semester as prescribed in the curriculum for his/her course, must have organized a program of study for his/her degree, has registered for formal academic credits and carried the subjects called for by the
curriculum for which s/he is registered in a given semester

A student carrying less than the number of units prescribed in the curriculum is considered "underload" and shall be disqualified for graduation with honors.
In case of a graduating student who meets the required general weighted average (GWA) but fails to meet other requirements for the graduation with honors, the award shall be "with ACADEMIC DISTINCTION".

In the computation of the final average of a graduating student who is a candidate for academic distinction, only grades/ credits earned towards the degree shall be considered, provided s/he has no grade lower than 3.0 in any of the subjects regardless of whether that subject was taken in the University or elsewhere. S/he must have followed faithfully the conditions set/imposed by the University in terms of the transfer credits and rules on sequence in the curriculum and must have completed in the Bicol University at least seventy-five (75%) of the total number of units prescribed in his/her curriculum and must be in residence for at least six (6) semesters/terms immediately preceding graduation.

The College Evaluation Committee on Graduation with Honors shall be composed of the following:

The College/Campus Registrar - Chairperson
Department/ Program Chair - Co-Chairperson
College Student Affairs Coordinator - Member
College Guidance Coordinator - Member
Associate Dean- Member
One College Faculty Expert in Math- Member

Non-Academic Awards or Incentives
 
The University also gives due recognition to a graduating student who excels in his/her academics, leadership, service and sports activities. Likewise, to winners in the regional, national competitions and to the topnotchers in board examinations.

Ladderized Type Program Recognition

The University, in recognition of academic excellence among students pursuing degree courses with ladderized/ladder-type programs, shall award them the following based on the computation of the general weighted average (GWA) of subjects taken as prescribed in the ladder program s/he is pursuing. The awards or recognition will be given in the College Recognition Program.

Recognition/Awards	General Weighted Average
With highest honor	GWA ≤ 1.25
With higher honor	1.25 < GWA <=1.45
With high honor		1.45 < GWA <=1.75

Candidates for this recognition/ award shall be evaluated by the College Evaluation Committee on Graduation with Honors.

Transcript/Diploma

Since records of students are confidential, information is released only at the request of the student, or of the appropriate institutions and/or officials.
Official transcript of records from other institutions, which have been submitted to the University as transfer credentials, becomes part of the student's permanent record. Data thereon are usually reflected on the official transcript of records to be prepared later on for the student in the Office of the University Registrar.
Application for transcript of records must be accompanied by the student's clearance and official receipt of transcript payment.
Opening of Cost Recovery Courses 12

All Academic Deans/Directors are authorized to approve requests of student(s) for the opening of tutorial courses in the graduate and undergraduate programs on cost recovery basis.

The approval of requests shall adhere to the following procedures:

1. Opening of courses on cost recovery basis shall be considered upon request of the following:
a. Graduating students with deficiency(ies) whose needed course(s) are not programmed for the semester, and
b. Irregular students who need to take the course to fit the mainstream of students in the appropriate curriculum year.
2 Request for opening of courses not aligned with the semestral course offerings based on the regular curriculum year schedule shall be done by the concerned students not later than two weeks before enrollment.
3. Students' request shall be addressed to the Dean and endorsed by the Program Adviser and/ or Department Chairperson.
4. Same endorsement shall carry the Program Adviser's or Department Chairperson's recommendation of the Professor/ Instructor to teach the course, indicating the full student cost.
5. The Professor/Instructor shall be designated by the Dean considering primarily his/ her academic preparation, teaching load which not exceed 30 units, and his/her willingness to teach the course on cost recovery basis.
6. In case of students with failures (a rating of 5.0), the faculty to be assigned to teach the requested course should not be the same faculty who gave the failing mark.
7. The professor/instructor shall be compensated fully based on his/her hourly rate. The computation for payment of honorarium shall be as follows: Hourly rate of faculty x no. of hours/ no. of students = Cost per student.
8. The fees shall be deposited to the College Trust Fund and shall be disbursed solely for the purpose.
9. The payment shall be made out to the professors/instructors concerned following the usual procedure and accompanied by the needed documents.
10. The usual supervision shall be exercised by the Deans/ Directors concerned to ensure that the students are given adequate instructional provision.












